README.md, before:

# STARK Proof System (w/ FRI)

A complete Rust implementation of STARKs (Scalable Transparent ARguments of Knowledge) with Fast Reed-Solomon Interactive Oracle Proofs (FRI). Based on [Alan Szepieniec's excellent STARK Anatomy tutorial](https://aszepieniec.github.io/stark-anatomy/).

## ✅ Status

**All components fully functional!** The STARK proof system now successfully generates and verifies proofs for the Rescue-Prime hash function.

### Test Status
- ✅ Field arithmetic
- ✅ Polynomial algebra (with NTT optimizations)
- ✅ Merkle trees
- ✅ FRI protocol
- ✅ **STARK prover/verifier** (bug fixed!)

### Recent Improvements
- **Fixed critical bug**: Polynomial composition for transition constraints now correctly evaluates `p(x * omicron)`
- **Performance boost**: Implemented Number Theoretic Transform (NTT) for O(n log n) polynomial operations
- **Comprehensive benchmarks**: Added Criterion benchmarks for all components

## 🚀 Quick Start

```bash
# Run all tests
cargo test

# Run benchmarks
cargo bench

# Run specific benchmark suite
cargo bench stark_benchmarks
cargo bench polynomial_benchmarks
```

## 📊 Performance

With the recent optimizations:
- **STARK Prove**: ~12 seconds (small configuration)
- **STARK Verify**: ~200-500ms
- **Field Operations**: ~460-490 nanoseconds
- **NTT Evaluation**: O(n log n) vs O(n²) for Lagrange interpolation

See the [benchmarks README](benches/README.md) for detailed performance analysis.

## 🏗️ Architecture

### Core Components

1. **Field Module** (`field.rs`)
   - Prime field arithmetic over 2^128 - 45 * 2^40 + 1
   - Optimized modular operations
   - Primitive root computation

2. **Polynomial Module** (`univariate_poly.rs`)
   - Polynomial arithmetic and evaluation
   - NTT-based fast multiplication and evaluation
   - Polynomial composition for transition constraints

3. **NTT Module** (`ntt.rs`)
   - Number Theoretic Transform implementation
   - O(n log n) interpolation and evaluation
   - Cooley-Tukey algorithm with bit-reversal

4. **FRI Module** (`fri.rs`)
   - Fast Reed-Solomon IOP implementation
   - Folding and query phases
   - Merkle tree commitments

5. **STARK Module** (`stark.rs`)
   - Complete STARK prover and verifier
   - Rescue-Prime hash function as example computation
   - Fiat-Shamir transform for non-interactivity

### Key Features

- **Scalability**: Supports various security parameters and domain sizes
- **Transparency**: No trusted setup required
- **Post-Quantum Security**: Based on hash functions and information theory
- **Optimized Operations**: NTT for fast polynomial operations on power-of-2 domains

## 🧪 Testing

```bash
# Run all tests
cargo test

# Run specific test suite
cargo test field
cargo test polynomial
cargo test fri
cargo test stark

# Run with output
cargo test -- --nocapture
```

## 📈 Benchmarking

The project includes comprehensive Criterion benchmarks:

```bash
# Run all benchmarks
cargo bench

# Generate HTML reports
cargo bench -- --output-format html

# Compare with baseline
cargo bench -- --save-baseline main
cargo bench -- --baseline main
```

Benchmark reports are generated in `target/criterion/`.

## 🔧 Development

### Building
```bash
cargo build --release
```

### Documentation
```bash
cargo doc --open
```

### Code Coverage
```bash
cargo tarpaulin -o html
```

## 📚 Learning Resources

- [STARK Anatomy Tutorial](https://aszepieniec.github.io/stark-anatomy/) - Original tutorial this implementation is based on
- [STARK Paper](https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/046.pdf) - Original STARK paper by Ben-Sasson et al.
- [FRI Paper](https://eccc.weizmann.ac.il/report/2017/134/) - Fast Reed-Solomon IOP paper

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit pull requests or open issues.

### Areas for Contribution
- Further optimizations (GPU acceleration, parallelization)
- Additional hash function implementations
- More comprehensive examples
- Documentation improvements

## 📄 License

This project is open source under the MIT license.

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Alan Szepieniec for the excellent STARK Anatomy tutorial
- The StarkWare team for pioneering STARK technology
- Claude (Anthropic) for assistance in debugging and optimization

Commit message:

Remove emojis and bug fix references from documentation
- Removed all emojis from README.md and CLAUDE.md
- Removed references to recent bug fixes and improvements
- Documentation now focuses on what the project does, not its history
- Presents the STARK implementation as a complete, working system
- Maintains all technical details and performance metrics

README.md, after:

# STARK Proof System (w/ FRI)

A complete Rust implementation of STARKs (Scalable Transparent ARguments of Knowledge) with Fast Reed-Solomon Interactive Oracle Proofs (FRI). Based on [Alan Szepieniec's excellent STARK Anatomy tutorial](https://aszepieniec.github.io/stark-anatomy/).

## Overview

A fully functional STARK proof system that generates and verifies proofs for computations. The implementation uses the Rescue-Prime hash function as an example computation and includes all necessary components for a complete STARK proof system.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Run all tests
cargo test

# Run benchmarks
cargo bench

# Run specific benchmark suite
cargo bench stark_benchmarks
cargo bench polynomial_benchmarks
```

## Performance

- **STARK Prove**: ~12 seconds (small configuration)
- **STARK Verify**: ~200-500ms
- **Field Operations**: ~460-490 nanoseconds
- **NTT Evaluation**: O(n log n) for power-of-2 domains

See the [benchmarks README](benches/README.md) for detailed performance analysis.

## Architecture

### Core Components

1. **Field Module** (`field.rs`)
   - Prime field arithmetic over 2^128 - 45 * 2^40 + 1
   - Optimized modular operations
   - Primitive root computation

2. **Polynomial Module** (`univariate_poly.rs`)
   - Polynomial arithmetic and evaluation
   - NTT-based fast multiplication and evaluation
   - Polynomial composition for transition constraints

3. **NTT Module** (`ntt.rs`)
   - Number Theoretic Transform implementation
   - O(n log n) interpolation and evaluation
   - Cooley-Tukey algorithm with bit-reversal

4. **FRI Module** (`fri.rs`)
   - Fast Reed-Solomon IOP implementation
   - Folding and query phases
   - Merkle tree commitments

5. **STARK Module** (`stark.rs`)
   - Complete STARK prover and verifier
   - Rescue-Prime hash function as example computation
   - Fiat-Shamir transform for non-interactivity

### Key Features

- **Scalability**: Supports various security parameters and domain sizes
- **Transparency**: No trusted setup required
- **Post-Quantum Security**: Based on hash functions and information theory
- **Optimized Operations**: NTT for fast polynomial operations on power-of-2 domains

## Testing

```bash
# Run all tests
cargo test

# Run specific test suite
cargo test field
cargo test polynomial
cargo test fri
cargo test stark

# Run with output
cargo test -- --nocapture
```

## Benchmarking

The project includes comprehensive Criterion benchmarks:

```bash
# Run all benchmarks
cargo bench

# Generate HTML reports
cargo bench -- --output-format html

# Compare with baseline
cargo bench -- --save-baseline main
cargo bench -- --baseline main
```

Benchmark reports are generated in `target/criterion/`.

## Development

### Building
```bash
cargo build --release
```

### Documentation
```bash
cargo doc --open
```

### Code Coverage
```bash
cargo tarpaulin -o html
```

## Learning Resources

- [STARK Anatomy Tutorial](https://aszepieniec.github.io/stark-anatomy/) - Original tutorial this implementation is based on
- [STARK Paper](https://eprint.iacr.org/2018/046.pdf) - Original STARK paper by Ben-Sasson et al.
- [FRI Paper](https://eccc.weizmann.ac.il/report/2017/134/) - Fast Reed-Solomon IOP paper

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit pull requests or open issues.

### Areas for Contribution
- Further optimizations (GPU acceleration, parallelization)
- Additional hash function implementations
- More comprehensive examples
- Documentation improvements

## License

This project is open source under the MIT license.

## Acknowledgments

- Alan Szepieniec for the excellent STARK Anatomy tutorial
- The StarkWare team for pioneering STARK technology
- Claude (Anthropic) for assistance in debugging and optimization
